Hi guys.
Now we're going to talk about latency based routing.
So what latency based routing is is a way to ensure that users are connected to a service that has the
lowest latency.
So if you for instance have the same service running on web servers in different parts of the world
and you want your users to access the resources in the region is closest to them.
Now you know there's other factors around latency but one of the main factors is the distance between
you and the resource.
So if you have a user in Sydney the latency between Sydney and the AP se to a region is going to be
very low whereas going across the U.S. Each one is going to have higher licensee so the way this works
then is you create multiple records with the same name and then you specify the IP is all the load balancing
idea of your resources and then you specify the region which this record is responsible for.
And now what happens is when someone queries around 50 free from Sydney it looks through that less than
and knows that all of these are related and says Well which one of these corresponds to the lowest latency
for this user.
And it knows the AP SD 2 is the is the best answer.
So it would give the address of the load balancer.
Similarly for someone in New York it would give them USD 1 or Virginia and for London it would give
them new west to so that's how that works.
Let's now go and grab some addresses.
So I'm just going to copy my instance in Singapore and we're going to go to the console and we're going
to create these records.
So we're going to call this latency DST labs dot com.
I'm going to reduce the TTL I'm going to specify the value choose latency.
And so this one was for Singapore.
Yeah this one's for Singapore.
So I mean it already knows.
So look it's it's clever it already picks up there should be a Singapore address and then if we want
to we can specify our health check.
So what's in this.
Give us a name.
So let's just call this latency.
Singapore.
So we've got that record.
Now we can create another one.
It's going to be the next in the lists.
Let's just go back get the IP address of all North Virginia server
and I'm going to pass that one in put in lights and see.
Sure enough it finds its USD 1 and I can specify my health check hand I need to give it that name again.
So latency.
No Virginia click on Create and for the last one I don't need to go and copy anything because we know
this is the load balancer so latency that these that dot com common going to change too.
Yes for alias I'm going to specify my load balancer.
I'm going to put it latency and this time it doesn't come up with the region.
So I just need to go into AP SD to an associate this with a health check.
And sure enough I remember this time so I'm going to put it in a set of days so just call this licensee
Sidney and create that record
so we've got our free records now and we want to test them out.
So what I want to do is just go into a browser and type latency DCT lamps dot com and hit enter.
And sure enough I get AP SD to.
Now I'm actually in Sydney so that's not surprising.
That's that's the by far the closest I w s region to me.
Now what I want to do is let's just go to a command prompt here and we can have a look at this record.
So I'm going to do a dig on DCT labs dot com latency ADT and APS dot com and you can say I've got those
two IP addresses which we know from before these are the addresses that correspond to the load balancer
that's in the Sydney region and we just rerun it again because I think it's just about to renew we can
see that CCL expired.
We've got a new one.
Now before that expires what I'm gonna do is and you can't see this on your screen but I'm actually
just going to connect to a VPN now.
So on another screen I've just connected using a VPN client to Canada.
So my IP address is now a Canadian IP address and our TCO should have expired.
So let's just hit refresh and see.
Sure enough we get us e one D.
So we go to North Virginia now and if I come back and hit the latency sure enough we can see in their
IP address with two to four one that is definitely in Canada in the US excuse me that's our north Virginian
instance.
So the first thing to do now is I'm just going to disable my VPN again and I'm going to connect to Singapore.
So I now have an IP address in Singapore and I'm going to refresh my browser and sure enough we go to
se one a which is an availability zone in Singapore.
So just go back to the diagram and excuse me.
This is different we have EU here but I had Singapore instead.
But otherwise this is very much what we've just done.
We've shown that you can go from Sydney into the south east region.
We actually can exit from Canada into North Virginia and we connected also from Singapore and went into
the Singapore region.
So that's what licensee base routing is you can use low balances or easy two instances and it just assesses
the latency from the user to the Amazon region and then determines which record to route people to based
on the lowest latency for the user.